dear friends once you have seen our
presentation and grasp the basic
scientific conclusion that coal comes
from plants you might still be curious
how green living organisms could
eventually become shiny black hope
you might also want to know what kind of
physical and chemical changes take place
during this process and why these
changes are significant
in the Earth's more than four billion
year history in numerable world shaking
changes have taken place
these gave rise to a myriad life forms
including coal which came to play an
integral part in humans lives
so how did coal or black gold as it is
also known come to exist let's look for
our answer in some plant fossils
discovered in a coal seam
from about 345 million to 2.5 million
years ago the earth experienced the
Carboniferous Permian Triassic and
Jurassic Cretaceous periods the three
main periods of coal formation
at the time the climate was mild and wet
with ample sunlight and rainfall
because low-lying marshes contained an
abundance of nutrients they were
especially well-suited for plant growth
and reproduction
they became the areas where plants grew
the most profusely many grew to heights
of over 30 meters
along with theoretically changing
environment these plants like all the
myriad life-forms underwent typical life
and metabolic processes
natural processes caused the plants in
marshes to constantly accumulate layer
upon layer
aided by anaerobic microorganisms in the
water
a series of biochemical reactions took
place and the plants gradually
transformed into a dark brown mud life
substance called peat this was the first
stage in the plant's transformation and
to cold the peat fades various forces
then caused the peat to become buried
deep underground pressure from
sedimentary rock and high temperatures
subjected it to pressing dehydration and
rhe carburization
as a result the originally loose peat
layer gradually solidified into brown
coal thus completing the second phase of
coal formation the dye genetic fades
for brown coal to turn into today's
bituminous and non bituminous coal it
had to pass through the third phase of
coal formation the metamorphic phase
in this phase brown coal is continuously
subjected to high pressure and
temperatures water is continuously lost
or evaporated and carbon content
increased
spread over different geographical
environments only some of the ancient
plants became cold others became fossils
and many just gradually disintegrated
under similar temperature and pressure
conditions
how did bituminous and non bituminous
coal come to pass here we cannot ignore
the role played by time
if we divide the Earth's 4.6 billion
year history into a 12 hour time frame
taking midnight as the starting point
coal formation didn't start until about
11:00 a.m. and the history of mankind
lasts barely one minute plants
continuously engage in photosynthesis
absorbing solar energy co2 and water and
releasing oxygen
Cole is precisely the opposite when
burned it uses oxygen and releases co2
and thermal energy thus we can see that
the solar energy absorbed by plants
hundreds of millions of years ago was
preserved to the present in the form of
coal once burned this energy is released
another expression in nature of the law
of conservation
over hundreds of millions of years and
innumerable changes the earth used her
amazing powers to give us an abundance
of coal resources
these are now employed in a variety of
applications but coal is a non-renewable
resource we must cherish the precious
bounty which nature has blessed us with
and strive to use it efficiently
you